---
has_children: true
has_toc: false
layout: default
nav_order: 4
permalink: /:path/:basename
tags: [Custom Layouts]
title: Custom Layouts
---

# Custom Layouts

In the [Layout Editor](../03_Layout_Editor/03-00-01-Index.md), we went over what each block does. In this section, we'll focus on making a custom layout. This can be considered an immediate section, and each page broken down into two main parts: Function and Design. 

>:warning: You are expected to have some basic CSS knowledge, or the ability to read the [Mozilla CSS Reference Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference) (*The Moz*). Some rudimentary definitions will be given, but anything in depth should be referred to the Moz.
> You are also expected to know how to access the Obsidian Console. 

***

In Function, we'll cover what you mechanically can get the Statblock Block to do within the limits of Obsidian and Fantasy Statblocks. 

In Design, we'll cover what CSS can do to help, and its limitations.

Each section will end with considerations to keep in mind as you commit to making a custom layout. I sometimes say that a Statblock Layout is an Obsidian Theme unto itself, and sometimes it is!

## Suggestions To Get Started

1) Invest in an IDE from the get-go, such as VSCode.
2) Consider learning about SCSS and [@use](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use) even if you plan to write in regular CSS. Separating out the CSS into smaller files helps makes maintenance and trouble-shooting easier. You can see how the Pathfinder2E Statblock CSS is [maintained using this method](https://github.com/mProjectsCode/obsidian-pathfinder2e-statblocks/tree/master/src/scss).
3) Start on the default theme as you develop your CSS. When you think you have a good look, switch to ITS-Theme, then EbullientWorks, then Shimmering Focus, then AnuPpuccin. Switch back to default between attempts. Each of these themes will challenge different aspects of your snippet and force you to either scale back, or become more specific. 
4) #Javalant-Support-Thread in #Tabletop-Games is going to be your resource for skinning Statblocks until this guide is finished. After that, we'll send you off to #Appearance and expect you to to give them this manual.
5) That said, the resources for [Theme Designers](https://publish.obsidian.md/hub/04+-+Guides%2C+Workflows%2C+%26+Courses/for+Theme+Designers) are equally applicable here. 
6) If you use `!important`, it must be a last resort, and please document it thoroughly in your readme and snippet where to find them.

When you are ready, let's begin. We have a long way to go.